--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
 
 (THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013) 
 
(COMPANY LIMITED BY SHARES) 
 
   UNDER SECTION 8 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 
 
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 
 
OF 
 
           GREEN AHOM FEDERATION 
 
1. a) The reference herein to ‘The Act’ is to the Companies Act, 2013 as amended thereto, from time 
to time and as applicable.  
 
b) The headings are given for convenience and shall not affect the construction of these articles.  
 
INTERPRETATION 
 
2. The Regulations contained in Table ‘F’ in Schedule 1 to the Act as amended from time to time in 
so far as they are applicable to a private limited company and so far as they are not modified or 
altered by Articles hereinafter provided, shall apply to this Company.  
 
3. In the interpretation of these Articles, the following expressions shall have the following meanings, 
unless repugnant to the subjects or context.  
 
“The Company” or this company means “GREEN AHOM FEDERATION” 
 
“Memorandum & Articles” means the Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association 
respectively of the Company. 
 
“Director” means and include all Directors of the Company and except where the context otherwise 
requires for those Articles shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company, or a properly 
constituted committee thereof. 
 
“The Office” means the Registered Office for the time being of the company. “The Registrar” 
means the Registrar of Companies. 
 
“Month” means Calendar Month. 
 
"Year" means April to March of any Financial Year. 
 
“Proxy” includes Attorney duly constituted under a power of attorney. 
 
“Shareholder /Member" means a member of the Company who has duly subscribed to the shares 
of the company and after due approval of the Board of Directors of the Company from time to time 
and who continues to be a member for the time being. 
 
"Governing/Executive Committee" shall mean "the Governing/Executive Committee of the 
Company constituted by the board of Director 
“Rules and Regulations” shall be the rules and regulations framed by the Board to run the operation 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
of the company from time to time. 
 
“In Writing Or Written” includes printing, lithography, and other modes of reproducing works in 
a visible form, which also include thumb impression properly attested.  
 
Words importing persons includes corporation, Firms and Association. 
 
Words importing singular number include the plural and vice-versa. 
 
Words importing masculine gender include the feminine gender and vice-versa. 
 
PRIVATE COMPANY 
 
4. (a) The Company is a Private Company within the meaning of Section 2(68) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and it means a Company ,which by its articles-  
 
i) restricts the right to transfer its shares;  
 
ii) except in case of One Person Company, limits the number of its members to 200.  
 
Provided that where two or more persons hold one or more shares in a Company jointly, they 
shall, for the purposes of this clause, be treated as a single member: 
 
Provided further that- 
 
a) persons who are in the employment of the Company; and  
 
b) persons who, having been formerly in the employment of the Company, were 
members of the Company while in that employment and have continued to be 
members after the employment ceased,  
 
shall not be included in the number of members; and 
 
iii) prohibits any invitation to the public to subscribe for any securities of the Company;  
 
(b) The Company may at any time by a special resolution convert itself into a private company 
within the meaning and subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013  
 
SHARE CAPITAL 
 
5. The authorized Share capital of the company shall be as mentioned in Clause 8 of the Memorandum 
of Association of the Company     SHARES & CERTIFICATES 
 
6. Allotment of shares  
 
a) Subject to the provisions of these articles, shares in the capital of the Company for the time 
being shall be under the absolute control of the Board of Directors who may allot or otherwise 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
dispose off the same or any of them to such persons on such terms and conditions and at such 
times and either at a premium or at par or subject to the provisions relating to discount as 
provided in the Act and as the Board may think fit.  
 
b) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article, where securities are dealt with in a 
Depository, the Company shall intimate the details of allotment of securities to Depository 
immediately on allotment of such Securities.  
 
7. Register and Index of Members  
 
The Company shall cause to be kept at its Registered Office or at such other place as may be decided, 
Register and Index of members in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Act and the 
Depositories Act, 1996 with details of shares held in physical and dematerialized forms or in any media 
as may be permitted by law including in any form of electronic media. The Register and index of 
beneficial owners maintained by a Depository under the applicable provisions of the Depositories Act, 
1996 shall also be deemed to be the Register and index of members for the purpose of this Act. The 
Company shall have the power to keep in any state or country outside India, a Register of Members 
for the residents in that state or country. 
 
TRANSFER 
 
8. The Board of Directors may at their absolute discretion decline to register any transfer of shares of 
debentures in the following cases:  
 
a) The transfer of shares or debentures to a person who have not been approved by the Board of 
Directors.  
 
b) Any transfer of shares on which the Company has a lien.  
 
9. Subject to provisions, Shares or Debentures held by a member or debenture holder as the case may 
be, may be transferred to his legal heirs or any other existing shareholder or debenture holder of 
the Company and shall not be transferred to any other person other than those as aforesaid.  
 
10. In case of transfer of all or any part of the shares in or debenture of the Company, to any person or 
persons excepting those provided in Article 10 above, a transferor shall intimate the Company in 
writing of his intention to do so, specifying clearly therein the name and address both present and 
permanent, and description of the proposed transferee and the Company, on receipt of such 
intimation of the transferor, shall hold meeting of Board of Directors to consider the matter of such 
transfer, within a period of 60 days from the date of receipt of such intimation letter from the 
transferor and the Board of Directors shall be at liberty either to take in such transferee as a member 
or debenture holder or arrange the transfer to any member or debenture holder of the Company as 
the case may be or any other person and in such manner as the Board of Directors may approve 
and prescribe. 
 
11. The instrument of transfer of any shares in, or debentures of the Company shall be executed both 
by the transferor and the transferee and the transferor shall remain the holder of the shares or 
debentures so transferred until the name of the transferee is registered in the Register of Members 
or in the Register of Debenture Holders.  
 
12. Every instrument of transfer shall be left at the office of the Company along with the original 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
certificate of shares or debentures of the Company to be transferred and the transfer may be 
registered.  
 
TRANSMISSION 
 
13. In case of death of a member or debenture holder, the shares or debentures shall pass on to his or 
her heirs, administrators or executors and any person becoming entitled to such shares and 
debentures in consequence of death of any member or debenture holder may upon producing such 
evidence of title as the Board of Directors may require, register himself as holder of the shares or 
debentures and subject to the provisions of transfer herein contained, transfer the same to some 
other person.  
 
INCREASE, DECREASE & ALTERATION OF CAPITAL 
 
14. The Company may be Ordinary Resolution from time to time alter the conditions of the 
Memorandum of Association as follows:  
 
a) Increase the share capital by such amount, to be divided into share of such amount as may 
be specified in the resolution with the prior approval of Central Government 
 
b) Consolidate and divide all or any of its shares of larger amount than its existing shares.  
 
c) Sub-divide its existing shares or any of them into shares of smaller amount than is fixed by 
the Memorandum, and/or Articles of Association, so however, that in the sub-division, the 
proportion between the amount paid and the amount, if any, unpaid on each reduced share 
shall be the same as it was in the case of the share from which the reduced shares is derived; 
and   d) Cancel any shares which at the date of the passing of the resolution, have not been taken or 
agreed to be taken by any person.  
 
15. The Company may, subject to applicable provisions of the Act, and any other consent required 
under applicable laws, from time to time, and with the prior approval of Central Government 
by special resolution reduce in any manner:  
 
a) its Share capital  
 
   
BORROWING POWERS 
 
16. Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Board of Directors may from time to time, by a resolution 
passed at a meeting of the Board accept deposits or borrow moneys from members, directors or 
their relatives, either in advance of calls or otherwise and may generally raise and secure the 
payment of such sum or sums in such manner and upon such terms and conditions in all respects 
as they think fit and in particular by issue of bonds or redeemable debenture stock, or any mortgage 
or charge or other security on the undertaking or the whole or any part of the property of the 
Company (both present and future) including its uncalled capital for the time being.  
 
 
 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
GENERAL MEETING 
 
17. ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING  
 
The first Annual General Meeting of the Company shall be held within eighteen months from the date 
of incorporation of the Company. The next Annual General Meeting of the Company shall be held by 
the Company within six months after the expiry of each financial year unless an extension of time is 
obtained from the Registrar of Companies as provided in the Act. Provided that not more than fifteen 
months shall elapse between the date of one Annual General Meeting of the Company and that of the 
next meeting. 
 
18. NOTICE OF MEETING  
 
A general meeting of the Company may be called by giving not less than 7 days’ notice in writing, 
which should be sent to the members of the Company entitled to receive such notice, provided 
however, a General Meeting may be called after giving shorter notice if consent is accorded, in case 
of Annual General Meeting by all the members entitled to vote thereat and in case of any other meeting, 
by members of the Company holding not less than 95% of such part of the paid-up share capital of the 
Company as gives right to vote at the meeting. Accidental omission to give notice to or the non-receipt 
of such notice by any member shall not invalidate the proceeding held at any General Meeting. 
 
19. EXTRA ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING  
 
a) All General Meetings other than the Annual General Meetings shall be called Extra-Ordinary 
General Meetings.  
 
b) The Board of Directors may, whenever it thinks fit, call an Extra Ordinary General Meeting.  
 
c) If at any time Directors capable of acting who are sufficient in number to form a quorum are not 
within India, any Director or two members of the Company may call an Extra Ordinary General 
Meeting in the same manner as nearly as possible as that in which such a meeting may be called 
by the Board of Directors.  
 
20. CHAIRMAN   The Chairman, if any, of the Board of Directors shall preside as Chairman at every General Meeting 
of the Company, including Annual General Meetings. 
 
VOTES OF MEMBERS 
 
21. Voting rights of the members shall be:  
 
a) On a show of hands, every member holding equity shares and present in person shall have one 
vote.  
 
b) On a poll, voting rights of members shall be, in proportion to their holding of shares in the paid-
up equity capital of the Company.  
 
22. In case of joint-holders, the vote of the senior who renders a vote, whether in person or by proxy 
shall be accepted to the exclusion of the vote of the other joint holders. For this purpose, seniority 
shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members.  

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
 
23. No member shall be entitled to vote at any General Meeting unless all calls or other sums presently 
payable by him in respect of shares in the Company have been paid.  
 
PROXIES 
 
24. Restriction to vote/ Proxy to vote on Poll 
 
Any member entitled to attend and vote at a meeting of the Company shall be entitled to appoint 
another member as his/her proxy to attend and vote in his/her stead.  
 
DIRECTORS 
 
25. Number of Directors  Until otherwise determine by a special resolution, the number of Directors of the Company shall 
not be less than two 
 
26. First Directors 
 
The persons hereinafter named shall be the first directors of the Company: 
 
1 SHAMIL EMONAR RAHMAN LASKAR 
2 ROFIK AHMED BARBHUIYA 
3 HABIBA KHANAM BARBHUIYA 
   
27. Additional Director or filling casual vacancy  
The Board of Directors shall have the power at any time and from time to time to appoint any person 
as Director either to fill a casual vacancy or as an Additional Director. 
  28. Alternate Director 
The Board may appoint any person as alternate director to act for a director during his absence for a 
period of not less than three months from the state in which meeting of the Board are ordinarily held 
and such alternate director shall ipso facto vacate office if and when the absentee director returns to 
the state in which meetings of the Board are ordinarily held, or if the absentee director vacates office 
as a director. 
 
29. Directors not to retire by rotation 
Directors shall not be required to retire by rotation. 
 
 
30. Meeting of Directors 
At least once in every three months or earlier as may be deemed necessary, the Directors shall meet 
together for dispatch of business, adjourn and otherwise regulate their meetings and proceedings as 
they think fit. 
 
31. Chairman 
The Chairman of the Board of Directors will have to be elected from amongst the Directors. 
 
32. Quorum 
The quorum for a meeting of the Board of Directors shall be two Directors personally present. 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
33. Casting Vote 
The Chairman of the Board of Directors or of any meeting shall have a casting vote in case of a tie in 
any meeting. 
 
34. Committee of Directors 
The Board of Directors may delegate any of their powers to such committee and the committee shall 
in the exercise of the power so delegated conform to any regulation that may from time to time be 
imposed on them by the Board of Directors subject to the provisions of the Act.   
35. Resolution by circulation 
Save as otherwise expressly provided by the Act, a resolution shall be as valid and effectual as if, it 
had been passed at a meeting of the Board of Directors or committee of Board of Directors, as the case 
may be, duly called and constituted if a draft thereof in writing is circulated together with necessary 
papers, if any, to all the directors or to all the members of the committee of the Board of Directors as 
the case may be, then in India (not being less in number than the quorum fixed for a meeting of the 
Board of Directors or the committee, as the case may be) and to all other Directors or members of the 
committee at their usual address in India and has been approved by such of them as are then in India 
or by a majority of such of them as are then in India or by a majority of such of them as are entitled to 
vote on the resolution. 
 
36. Minutes 
 
All minutes shall be signed by the Chairman of the Meeting at which the same are recorded or by the 
person who shall preside as Chairman at the next meeting and all minutes purporting to be so signed 
shall for all purpose whatsoever be prima facie evidence of the actual passing of the resolution recorded 
and of the regularity of the Meeting at which the same shall appear to have taken place, notwithstanding 
that it may afterwards be discovered that there was some defect in the appointment of any one or more 
of such Directors or that or any of them were disqualified. 
 
37. Director’s sitting fee 
 
The Board of Directors shall not be entitled to any sitting for attending the Board meetings of the 
Company. 
 
 
 
39. Powers of Board 
Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Board of Directors of the Company shall be entitled to exercise 
such powers and do such acts and things as the Company is authorized to exercise and do, provided 
that the Board of Directors shall not exercise any power or do any act or thing which is directed or 
required, whether by the Act, or any other law for the time being in force or by the Memorandum or 
Articles of Association of the Company or otherwise to be exercised or done by the Company in 
General Meeting.  
 
Provided further that in exercising any such power or doing any such act or thing, the Board of 
Directors shall subject to the provisions contained in that behalf in the Act, or any other law for the 
time being in force or in the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company or in any 
regulations not inconsistent therewith and duly made thereunder including regulations made by the 
Company in General Meeting provided however, that no regulation made by the Company in General 
Meeting shall invalidate any prior act of the Directors which would have been valid if that regulation 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
had not been made. 
 
Provided further that Board will frame the rules and regulations for running of the various activities of 
the company. These rules and regulations shall not affect the basic objectives and structure of the 
company and more over the executive committee appointed from time to time shall also be governed 
by these rules and regulations for the purpose of achieving the objectives of the company. These rules 
and regulations may be amended as and when fit deemed by the Board. 
 
40. No Directors shall be disqualified from his office by contracting with the Company nor shall any 
such contract or any contract into by or on behalf of the Company in which any Director shall be in 
any way interested, be void nor shall any Director so contracting or being so interested be liable to 
account to the Company realized by reason only of such Director holding that office or of the fiduciary 
relations established but it is declared that to the extent it is required under the provisions of the Act, 
the nature of his interest must be disclosed by him at the Director’s Meeting at which the contract is 
considered if his interest then exists, or in any other case at the first meeting of the Directors after the 
acquisition of his interest. 
 
POWERS & DUTIES OF DIRECTORS 
 
41. Without prejudice to the general powers conferred by the foregoing clauses, the Board of Directors 
shall exercise the following powers amongst others:  
 
a) The Board of Directors may pay all charges, expenses incurred in respect of formation, 
promotion, establishment and incorporation of the Company under the Act, as well as its 
registration under any other rules or bye-laws having the force in law.  
 
b) The Board of Directors may from time to time, by power of attorney under the Company’s 
Seal, appoint any person/s to be attorney of the Company for any purpose.  
 
c) All cheques, Bills of Exchange, Promissory Notes and other Negotiable Instruments or other 
instruments of similar nature relating to the operations and transactions of the Company, shall 
be signed by any one or more of the Directors, as may be decided by the Board of Directors 
but the authority so conferred may be revoked at any time by the Board of Directors.  
 
d) The Board of Directors or the Managing Director/Whole Time Director/Executive 
Director/Director-in-charge if so authorized by the Board of Directors may refer any matter 
relating to the transactions of the Company to arbitration and the decision of the Arbitrator(s), 
if accepted by the Board of Directors would be binding on the Company.  
 
e) To Appoint Executive Committee or such number of committees as it may deem fit and   
      appoint chairman thereof and to delegate to them such functions on such terms and condition   
      as the board of directors may, from time to time, deem fit.  
 
f) To decide upon the opening of state/regional/international offices and the formation of  
     state/regional/international committees and to frame adequate rules and procedures for the  
     efficient and economic operations of these state/regional international offices/committees.  
 
g)  to delegate such power as it may deem fit , subject to the provision of these Articles and the  
     companies Act and rule made there under as amended from time to time  
 

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
h) to make, issue, vary and repeal such standing orders for the furtherance of the purpose for  
     which the company is established and for carrying on its business, as they may, from time to  
     time, consider necessary, provided such standing orders are not repugnant to the   
     Memorandum of Association and these Articles.  
  i) To make and frame rules and regulations from time to time for the company operations as it  
    may deem fit.   
 
ACCOUNTS & AUDIT 
 
42. The Board of Directors shall cause to maintain proper books of accounts with respect to:  
 
a) All sums of money received and expended by the Company and the matters in respect of which 
the receipt and expenditure takes place.  
 
b) All sales and purchases of goods by the Company.  
 
c) The assets and liabilities of the Company.  
 
43. Place where Books of Accounts to be kept - The books of accounts shall be kept at the Registered 
Office of the Company or at such place in India as the Board of Directors shall think fit. 
 
44. Inspection 
 
The books of accounts shall be open to inspection by any Director during the business hours and entries 
thereof shall be checked and verified at least once in every year by one or more or all Directors. 
 
45. Statutory Auditors 
 
The first auditors of the Company shall be appointed and the remuneration shall be fixed by the Board 
of Directors and thereafter the Auditors shall be appointed at each Annual General Meeting. 
 
 
 
MINUTES 
46. Minutes of Meeting  
 
a) The minutes of all proceeding of every General Meeting or the Board of Directors or committee 
of the Board of Directors shall be kept by making entries in the minute books within thirty days 
of conclusion of the meeting.  
 
b) The pages of the minute book shall be consecutively numbered.  
 
c) Each page of the minute books shall be initialed or signed and the last page of the record of 
proceedings shall be dated and signed.  
 
(i) In case of a meeting of the Board of Directors or committee of Board of Directors, by the 
Chairman of the said meeting or the next succeeding meeting, and  
 
(ii) In case of General Meeting, by the Chairman of the same meeting within aforesaid 30 days 
or in the event of death of or inability of the Chairman, by a Director duly authorized by the 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
Board of Directors.  
 
d) The minutes shall not be pasted or otherwise attached to the minute books.  
 
e) All appointments of officers made at any of the meetings shall be included in the minutes of 
the meetings.  
 
f) In case of a meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee of Board of Directors, the minutes 
shall also contain:  
 
(i) The names of the Directors present at the meeting, and  
 
(ii) In case of each resolution passed at the meeting, the names of Directors, if any dissenting 
from or not concurring in the resolution.  
g) The minutes of each meeting shall contain a fair and correct summary of the proceeding thereat, 
provided that no matter need be included in any such minutes which the Chairman of the 
meeting is having the option and:  
 
(i) Is, or could reasonably be regarded as defamatory of any person or  
(ii) Is irrelevant or immaterial to the proceedings or  
 
(iii) Is detrimental to the interests of the Company.  
 
INDEMNITY 
 
47. Every officer or agent of the Company for the time being shall be indemnified out of the assets of 
the Company against any liability incurred by him in defending any proceedings whether civil or 
criminal in which judgement is given in his favour or in which he is acquired or in connection with 
any application under Section 633 of the Act, in which relief is granted to him by the Court.  
SECRECY 
 
48. Directors, officers etc. to maintain secrecy 
 
Every Director, Manager, Trustee for the Company, Member or Debenture holders, Member of 
Committee, officer, servant, agent, accountant or other person employed in or about the business of 
the Company shall, if so required by the Board of Directors before entering upon his duties, sign a 
declaration pledging all transactions of the Company with his customers and state of accounts with 
individuals and in matters relating thereto, and shall subject to such declaration, pledge himself not to 
reveal any of the matters which may come to his knowledge in the discharge of his duties except when 
required so to do by the Board of Directors or by a Court of law and except so far as may be necessary 
in order to comply with any of the provisions contained in these Articles.  
LIEN 
 
49. (i) The Company shall have a paramount lien- 
 
(a) on every share (not being a fully paid share), for all monies (whether presently payable 
or not) called, or payable at a fixed time, in respect of that share; and  50. The Company may sell, in such manner as the Boards think fit, any shares on which the company 
has a lien: 
 

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
Provided that no sale shall be made- 
 
(a) unless a sum in respect of which the lien exists in presently payable: or   (b) until the expiration of fourteen days after a notice in writing stating and demanding payment 
of such part of the amount in respect of which the lien exists as is presently payable, has been 
given to the registered holder for the time being of the share or the person entitled thereto by 
reason of his death or insolvency. 
 
WINDING UP 
51. Application of assets 
Winding up when necessary will be done in accordance with the requirements of Companies 
Act, 2013 or such other statutory modifications thereto. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
 
We, the several persons, whose names and addresses are subscribed, are desirous of being 
formed into a not for profit company in pursuance of this Articles of Association, and we 
respectively agree to take the number of shares in the capital of the company set against our 
respective names:  
 
S. No.  Name, Address, Description and 
Occupation 
Signature of 
Subscribers Witness 
1.  SHAMIL EMONAR 
RAHMAN LASKAR  
56/38(C), SILCHAR ROAD, 
WARD NO.1, VIA GUDAM 
GHAT ROAD, 
HAILAKANDI, ASSAM-
788151 
SOCIAL ACTIVIST 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I WITNESS TO THE 
SUBSCRIBERS 
WHO HAVE 
SUBSCRIBED & 
SIGNED IN MY 
PRESENCE ON 
DATE 28/04/2026 
AT DELHI. 
FURTHER I HAVE 
VERIFIED THEIR 
IDENTITY RPROOF 
FOR 
IDENTIFICATION 
AND SATISFIED 
MYSELF OF 
IDENTIFICATION 
PARTICULARS AS 
FILLED IN. 
 
ACA ASHU 
BHARDWAJ 
M. NO. 560437 
208 G BLOCK, 
PUNJABI COLONY, 
Delhi, Delhi, Delhi, 
110040 
2.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
ROFIK AHMED 
BARBHUIYA 
C/O AKIL AHMED 
BARBHUIYA, SAHABAD PT 
2, HAILAKANDI, ASSAM - 
788163 
SOCIAL ACTIVIST 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. HABIBA KHANAM 
BARBHUIYA 
C/O MUFIZ UDDIN 
BARBHUIYA, H/NO-53, VILL 
NUN NAGAR PO- KATIRAIL, 
NUN NAGAR, KATIRAIL, 
T.E. CACHAR, KATIRAIL, 
ASSAM 788804 
SOCIAL ACTIVIST 
 
 
Place: HAILAKANDI 
Date: 28.04.2026 

