--- PAGE 1 ---
 
Form No. INC-13 
 
THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 
 
COMPANY LIMITED BY SHARES AND HAVING SHARE CAPITAL UNDER  SECTION 8 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013  
MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION 
OF 
GREEN AHOM FEDERATION  
[Pursuant to rule 19(2) the Companies (Incorporation and Incidental) Rules, 2014]. 
 
       I. The name of the company is “GREEN AHOM FEDERATION” 
 
II. “The registered office of the company will be situated in the State of ASSAM”.  
III. (A). The objects for which the company is established are:  
The main objects of the Company to be pursued by the Company on its incorporation are:  
1. To promote education as a means and accelerator for meaningful engagement with 
young children and women and poor people from marginalised sections of the society 
and strengthening this shift in momentum by actively working in underserved parts 
of the country, reawakening aspirations and fostering a culture of hard work and 
excellence among children and to find problems faced by the common citizens in their 
daily life and tackle them and encourage and harness young talent to form a 
community based approach for the development. 
 
2. To collaborate and partner with Government of India, central and state, as well as 
regulatory bodies and associations for the promotion of education, health, social 
awareness and all development works and education programmes and activities. 
 
3. To collaborate with, obtain sponsorship from, partner for Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) and to work with public and private bodies and organizations in 
India and globally for the promotion of social work and development. 
 
4. To associate, undertake, collaborate, partner, work with or engage with any national 
or international body or corporation in the field of social work, development  and 
related areas. 
 
5. To undertake sports awareness, aero sports and sports programmes for diverse 
segments of society. 
 
6. To promote and open education institute namely, Ideal Academy, Hailakandi Assam 
is acquired on FY 2025-26. 
7. We can open operate bank account in any nationalized or private or cooperative banks 
in India and if required for foreign banks. 
 
8. No objects of the company shall be carried for without prior approval of the competent 
authorities. Provided that the company shall not support with its funds, or endeavour 
to impose on, or procure to  be observed by its members or others, any regulation or 
restriction which, as an object of the company, would make it a trade union. 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---
IV. The objects of the company extend to the WHOLE OF INDIA. 
 
V. (i) The profits, if any, or other income and property of the company, whomsoever 
derived, shall be applied, solely for the promotion of its objects as set forth in this 
memorandum. 
(ii) No portion of the profits, other income or property aforesaid shall be paid or 
transferred, directly or indirectly, by way of dividend, bonus or otherwise by way of 
profit, to persons who, at any time are, or have been, members of the company or to 
any one or more of them or to any persons claiming through any one or more of them.  
(iii) No remuneration or other benefit in money or money’s worth shall be given by 
the company to any of its members, whether officers or members of the company or 
not, except payment of out-of-pocket expenses, reasonable and proper interest on 
money lent, or reasonable and proper rent on premises let to the company.  
(iv) Nothing in this clause shall prevent the payment by the company in good faith of 
prudent remuneration to any of its officers or servants (not being members) or to any 
other person (not being member), in return for any services actually rendered to the 
company.  
(v) Nothing in clauses (iii) and (iv) shall prevent the payment by the company in good 
faith of prudent remuneration to any of its members in return for any services (not 
being services of a kind which are required to be rendered by a member), actually 
rendered to the company;  
 
VI. No alteration shall be made to this memorandum of association or to the articles of 
association of the company which are for the time being in force, unless the alteration 
has been previously submitted to and approved by the Registrar. 
 
VII. The liability of the members is limited. 
 
VIII. The authorized share capital of the company will consist of Rs. 50,000/- divided into 
5,000 shares of Rs. 10/- with three directors in the ratio 36:34:30. 
 
IX. (i) True accounts shall be kept of all sums of money received and expended by the 
company and the matters in respect of which such receipts and expenditure take place, and 
of the property, credits and liabilities of the company; and, subject to any reasonable 
restrictions as to the time and manner of inspecting the same that may be imposed in 
accordance with the regulations of the company for the time being in force, the accounts 
shall be open to the inspection of the members.  
(ii) Once at least in every year, the accounts of the company shall be examined and the 
correctness of the balance-sheet and the income and expenditure account ascertained 
by one or more properly qualified auditor or auditors.  
 
X. If upon a winding up or dissolution of the company, there remains, after the satisfaction 
of all the debts and liabilities, any property whatsoever, the same shall not be distributed 
amongst the members of the company but shall be given or transferred to such other 
company having objects similar to the objects of this company, subject to such conditions 
as the Tribunal may impose, or may be sold and proceeds thereof credited to the 
Rehabilitation and Insolvency Fund formed under section 269 of the Act.  
 
XI. The Company can be amalgamated only with another company registered under 
section 8 of the Act and having similar objects. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
We, the several persons, whose names and addresses are subscribed, are desirous of being formed 
into a not for profit company in pursuance of this Memorandum of Association, and we respectively 
agree to take the number of shares in the capital of the company set against our respective names:  
 
S. No.  Subscriber Details 
 Name, Address, Description and 
Occupation 
No. of 
shares 
taken 
Signature of 
Subscribers Witness 
1.  SHAMIL EMONAR RAHMAN 
LASKAR  
56/38(C), SILCHAR ROAD, 
WARD NO.1, VIA GUDAM 
GHAT ROAD, HAILAKANDI, 
ASSAM-788151.  
SOCIAL ACTIVIST 
 
360 
shares 
 I WITNESS TO THE 
SUBSCRIBERS 
WHO HAVE 
SUBSCRIBED & 
SIGNED IN MY 
PRESENCE ON 
DATE 28/04/2026 
AT DELHI. 
FURTHER I HAVE 
VERIFIED THEIR 
IDENTITY RPROOF 
FOR 
IDENTIFICATION 
AND SATISFIED 
MYSELF OF 
IDENTIFICATION 
PARTICULARS AS 
FILLED IN. 
 
ACA ASHU 
BHARDWAJ 
M. NO. 560437 
208 G BLOCK, 
PUNJABI COLONY, 
Delhi, Delhi, Delhi, 
110040 
2.  ROFIK AHMED BARBHUIYA 
C/O AKIL AHMED 
BARBHUIYA, SAHABAD PT 
2, HAILAKANDI, ASSAM - 
788163 
SOCIAL ACTIVIST 
 
340 
shares 
 
3.  HABIBA KHANAM 
BARBHUIYA 
C/O MUFIZ UDDIN 
BARBHUIYA, H/NO-53, VILL 
NUN NAGAR PO- KATIRAIL, 
NUN NAGAR, KATIRAIL, 
T.E. CACHAR, KATIRAIL, 
ASSAM 788804 
SOCIAL ACTIVIST 
300 
shares 
 
 Total 1000 
shares 
  
Place: HAILAKANDI 
Date: 28.04.2026 

